Propose threading section (#200)
decentralized-identity/didcomm-messaging: docs/spec-files/threading.md

### Message IDs

All plaintext DIDComm messages MUST have an `id` property, declared in the JWM header. A message without an `id` property SHOULD be considered invalid and SHOULD be rejected; it MUST NOT be interpreted as part of a multi-message interaction.

The value of `id` is a short (<=32 bytes) string consisting entirely of [unreserved URI characters](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986/#section-2.3) -- meaning that it is not necessary to [percent encode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percent-encoding) the value to incorporate it in a URI. Beyond this requirement, its format is not strongly constrained, but use of [UUIDs (RFC 4122)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4122) is recommended. Because of the affinity for UUIDs, this field inherits UUID case-sensitivity semantics: it SHOULD be written in lower case but MUST be compared case-insensitively.

The value of an `id` property SHOULD be globally, universally unique; at the very least, it MUST be unique across all interactions visible to the set of parties that see a given set of interactions.

### Threads

> A thread is uniquely identified by a thread ID. The thread ID is communicated by including a `thid` header in the JWM plaintext of the message. The value of `thid` MUST conform to the same constraints as the value of `id`. The DIDComm plaintext message that begins a thread MAY declare this property for the new thread. If no `thid` property is declared in the first message of an interaction, the `id` property of the message is used as `thid` as well; that is, the message is interpreted as if both `id` and `thid` were present, containing the same value.

Author: I agree with the sentiment, but I believe the wording you've suggested is backward. If no `thid` property is present, it is the `id` property, not the `thid` property, that plugs the gap. So we can either reword it as:

>If no `thid` property is declared in the first message of an interaction, the `thid` property value must be derived from (and equal to) the `id` property, which is guaranteed to be present

OR

>If no `thid` property is declared in the first message of an interaction, the `id` property of the message MUST be treated as the value of the `thid` as well

I have updated the text to use the second form.

If you disagree about this reversal of the verbiage, please reopen the comment.

> All subsequent messages in a thread MUST include a `thid` header that contains the same value as the `thid` set in the first message of the thread. Messages that do not share the same `thid` MUST NOT be imputed to the same thread.

Author: Agree that this is better. Updated.

### Parent Threads

When one interaction triggers another, the first interaction is called the **parent** of the second. This MAY be modeled by incorporating a `pthid` header in the JWM plaintext of the child. The value of the child's `pthid` header MUST obey the same constraints as `thid` and `id` values.

### DIDComm Message URIs

> The `id`, `thid`, and `pthid` properties of any DIDComm message may be combined to form a URI that uniquely identifies the message (e.g., in debuggers, in log files, in archives). When this is further combined with [JSPath](https://github.com/dfilatov/jspath#quick-example), individual elements of messages may also be hyperlinked. See [Linkable Message Paths](https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/blob/master/concepts/0217-linkable-message-paths/README.md). Such a scheme is out of scope for this spec, and support for it is NOT required of implementers. However, this spec reserves the `didcomm://` URI prefix for future work with semantics like these.

Author: I did some research back in the day, and concluded that JSON Pointer was flawed in some way (it might be the number and quality of the impls across programming langs) -- but I don't remember the details. So I have a suspicion that we won't end up using JSON Pointer. However, that doesn't matter here; we can reference both ideas without specifying which we will use.

Updating to address the suggestion.

### Gaps, Resends, and Sophisticated Ordering

> Message IDs and threads can be used to build very powerful features for detecting missing and out-of-order messages &mdash; and to recovery from them. For more information, see the [Implementers Guide](http://example.com/TODO--find-right-way-to-link-to-section-in-guide). 

Reviewer: This looks good now.

Suppose a DIDComm-based protocol (and therefore, a thread of messages) is underway in which an issuer wants to give a credential to a holder. At a particular stage in this interaction, perhaps the issuer asks the prospective holder of the credential to pay for what they're about to receive. For composability, encapsulation, reusability, and versioning reasons, negotiating and consummating payment is best modeled as a separable interaction from credential exchange &mdash; so a new sequence of messages (dedicated to payment) begins. In this example, the credential issuance interaction (message thread 1) is the parent of the payment interaction (message thread 2). The first message in thread 2 MUST contain a `pthid` header that references the `thid` from thread 1:

```jsonc
{
  "id": "new-uuid-for-payment-thread",
  "pthid": "id-of-old-credential-issuance-thread"
  // ...more headers and message content...
}

```

> >NOTE: When a child protocol is a simple two-party interaction, mentioning the `pthid` in the first message of the child interaction is enough to establish context. However, in protocols involving more than two parties, the first message of the child protocol may not be seen by everyone, so simply mentioning `pthid` once may not provide enough context. Therefore, the rule is that each party in a child protocol MUST learn the identity of the parent thread via the first child protocol message they see. The simplest way to ensure this is to mention the `pthid` with every message in the child protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a child protocol is a simple two-party interaction, mentioning the `pthid` in the first message of the child interaction is enough to establish context. However, in protocols involving more than two parties, the first message of the child protocol may not be seen by everyone, so simply mentioning `pthid` once may not provide enough context. Therefore, the rule is that each party in a child protocol MUST learn the identity of the parent thread via the first child protocol message they see. The simplest way to ensure this is to mention the `pthid` with every message in the child protocol.
```

Let's pull this out of the note since that normative statement is needed. From my understanding, note's are intended to be non-normative (in W3C) so shouldn't contain normative language.

Author: Agreed. Done.

### DIDComm Message URIs

> The `id`, `thid`, and `pthid` properties of any DIDComm message may be combined to form a URI that uniquely identifies the message (e.g., in debuggers, in log files, in archives). When this is further combined with something like [JSPath](https://github.com/dfilatov/jspath#quick-example) or [JS Pointer](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6901), individual elements of messages may also be hyperlinked. See [Linkable Message Paths](https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/blob/master/concepts/0217-linkable-message-paths/README.md). Such a scheme is out of scope for this spec, and support for it is NOT required of implementers. However, this spec reserves the `didcomm://` URI prefix for future work with semantics like these.

Reviewer: Looks like we've doubled up this section in both the guide files and the spec-files. To answer your question about reservation here's a block of suggestion text for the spec files and I've also added a suggestion block for the guide files.

```suggestion
The `id`, `thid`, and `pthid` properties of any DIDComm message may be combined to form a URI that uniquely identifies the message (e.g., in debuggers, in log files, in archives). Such a scheme is out of scope for this spec, and support for it is OPTIONAL for implementers. This spec reserves the `didcomm://` URI prefix for future work with semantics like these and SHALL NOT be used for other purposes.
```

Author: Okay, I think I correctly accepted both your suggestions. See if you are satisfied. (You are attributed as the author.)

## Threading

DIDComm provides a mechanism for referencing individual messages, the sets of messages that constitute a logically independent interaction (a "run" or "instance" of a protocol), or even the hierarchies of messages that model nested and recursive workflows. This helps with troubleshooting, debugging, error reporting, resend logic, interactions across more than two parties, and patterns of communication that are more flexible or asynchronous than simple request+response. It is the foundation for extremely powerful protocol features.

### Message IDs

> All plaintext DIDComm messages MUST have an `id` property, declared in the JWM header. A message without an `id` property SHOULD be considered invalid and SHOULD be rejected; it MUST NOT be interpreted as part of a multi-message interaction.

Author: If we have a one-way, one-message protocol (e.g., something that sends notifications only), I don't think that threading is needed. Therefore, I put "SHOULD" in rather than MUST. Changing this to a MUST makes sense for two-way, multi-step interactions, but I don't think it does for one-way.

> All plaintext DIDComm messages MUST have an `id` property, declared in the JWM header. A message without an `id` property SHOULD be considered invalid and SHOULD be rejected; it MUST NOT be interpreted as part of a multi-message interaction.

Reviewer: Agreed, this change doesn't make sense now. Let's go with what you have.

> All plaintext DIDComm messages MUST have an `id` property, declared in the JWM header. A message without an `id` property SHOULD be considered invalid and SHOULD be rejected; it MUST NOT be interpreted as part of a multi-message interaction.

Author: Should we add a note explaining why it's only "SHOULD"? Or maybe, put in "MUST" for any multi-step interaction?

> All plaintext DIDComm messages MUST have an `id` property, declared in the JWM header. A message without an `id` property SHOULD be considered invalid and SHOULD be rejected; it MUST NOT be interpreted as part of a multi-message interaction.

Reviewer: I think it's fine to leave it as just "SHOULD" without explicit mention. Typically when I read documents these days "SHOULD" means to me "It's done this way unless you got a reason to not do it" which relies upon the reader to be able to come up with (and then they know they're making an exception to a soft rule).
